# Barter is now live! :barter:
For the last 5 months I've been actively working on a web-marketplace startup called [Barter](https://barter-eco.com). This Monday we finally went live, and I'm excited to share this to the world! :fire:

## The idea
Primary idea of Barter is pretty simple - do you have something gathering dust in your closet, but for some reason you don't wanna sell it? Rent it out! This is perfect for camping/sports equipment, wide range of appliances and devices, maybe some stuff from your kitchen or even books! Also there's a case when people want to try something expensive (e.g vacuum cleaner, gaming console, etc.) without actually buying it - they can just borrow it from someone nearby for a very fair price.

## Business side of things
At this point Barter officially supports 2 countries: Poland and Belarus. We plan to expand to more EU countries in future, but if you wanna use our service in your country *now* - contact us at [business@barter-eco.com](mailto:business@barter-eco.com).

Our business model right now is pretty simple - we don't make money! For now our main goal is to get in touch with the market, let people use our platform entirely for free and gather feedback. This has one downside though - our users don't receive any warranty from the service and they have to perform transactions themselves. This is of course risky, for now we will offer a template of agreement for both sides to make things more smooth. We plan to keep this option, without restricting or actively trying to keep users doing things our way. Once we add a payment option, we will encourage people to use it via providing warranty and maybe some extra bonuses. This is of course in future, for now Barter only connects people and leaves the rest to them, without any warranty or responsibility.

## Being a CTO
Despite the fact that I'm technically a CTO, it doesn't really change anything. We don't have a big team here at Barter, nor do we manage huge infrastructures - there's just no need to. Since we are a startup, we try to keep things as simple as possible.

## Try it out! :barter:
Interested? Try barter by visiting https://barter-eco.com

What stops you from putting a couple of rentals to the platform? Who knows, maybe some guy nearby really needs it for a week or two - good chance to make some money helping other people.

## Wanna help?
The most valuable thing you can do for us is to start using our platform and leave feedback.

If you want to join the team or invest into us - please email [business@barter-eco.com](mailto:business@barter-eco.com).

